About The Company
Bombardier is a Canadian business jet manufacturer. It was also formerly a manufacturer of commercial jets, public transport vehicles, trains, and recreational vehicles, with the last being spun-off as Bombardier Recreational Products.
Headquarters: Montreal, Canada

2. Why are you interested in working for Bombardier?
This question is an opportunity to show your passion for the company and its products. When answering, it can be helpful to mention a specific product or service that you admire. You can also talk about how you would like to contribute to the company’s success.

Example: “I am interested in working for Bombardier because of the innovative nature of the company. I have always been fascinated by transportation technology, so I was excited when I learned about Bombardier’s extensive portfolio of trains, planes and automobiles. I think I could really make a difference here as a software developer, especially if I were able to help develop new technologies.”

3. How do you deal with a difficult customer or manager.
Employers ask this question to see how you handle conflict. They want to know that you can remain calm and professional when faced with a challenging situation. In your answer, explain what steps you take to resolve the issue while maintaining your professionalism.

Example: “I try my best to avoid difficult customers or managers by providing excellent customer service. If I do encounter someone who is upset, I listen carefully to their concerns and offer solutions. For example, if a customer calls in because of an issue with their train ride, I will apologize for the inconvenience and find out more about the problem. Then, I will work with my manager to fix the issue as quickly as
6. Are you comfortable performing preventive maintenance on airplanes?
This question is an opportunity to show your knowledge of the maintenance process and how you can contribute to a team. When answering, it’s important to highlight your ability to work independently and with others.

Example: “I have performed preventive maintenance on airplanes before, so I am comfortable doing this task. However, I prefer working as part of a team because there are many steps involved in performing maintenance. Having multiple people allows us to complete tasks more efficiently and ensures that we’re all following safety protocols. In my last role, I was responsible for inspecting the exterior of the plane while another employee inspected the interior.”
